---
template: page-default
headerImage: matrix-head.jpg
title: "Matrix 4"
langs:
  pl: 2022-01-02_matrix-4
category: blog
date: 2022-01-02
excerpt: I went to the new 'Matrix' without much hope for a work as outstanding as the first one. And even so, I was sorely disappointed.
lead: |-
  However, I went to the new 'Matrix' without much hope for a work as outstanding as the first one. Especially since the trailers suggested that it would be simply a "moar" of everything that was. But I went, on the first date because I wouldn't have lasted anyway.
  
  [Spoilers, but not much]
tags:
  - sf
---

We got a film full of contemplation, nostalgia, parody and light-heartedness – these are rather things that are not associated with the classic Matrix trilogy, right? There is very little left of the monumentality of the "first part". In fact, from the very beginning I watched this film in disbelief – what is this, some kind of fanfic?! The choreography of the fight scenes was the most striking of all weaknesses. It was like a distant echo of the one from the first Matrix. The shootouts also did not have any particular drama. Even the special effects were visibly worse in places than in the original – for example, the scene with the lips growing over.

Okay, but The Matrix is not only about fights and shootouts. Sure, they look nice, but in the end it is about the classic myth of "from zero to hero", about awakening to greatness and the will to power. Plus a layer of Gnosticism, plus a layer of Buddhism, all in a sauce of pathos. That's what happened in "One"...

Yes, in "Four" there was a second, laborious awakening. Only it had nothing of the magic of the first Matrix, instead it had everything to do with tearing a forty-something from the clutches of depression and swallowing handfuls of Prozac. You can fall into depression yourself, as you see Neo and Trinity in the clutches of Normal Life. Unfortunately, the other side of the mirror was not uplifting enough to lift your spirits - Normal Life also took place there. Will to Power was also weak, because Neo was out of shape, but the worst thing was the lack of style and killing the pathos with stupid self-parodies. The new actors imitated the style clumsily, the lack of pathos basically killed the drama.

The pluses are few. The Architect's successor is a pure, cynical evil without inhibitions, on the one hand posing as Neo's last resort, on the other - mocking him and hacking his mind with psychology.

There is a line there that Warner Bros. will make another Matrix whether Thomas Anderson likes it or not. Sure, it was meta, but I wonder: maybe it was meta meta? Maybe Lilly Wachowski let the corporation down and they did it without her, while Lana broke down and pulled this "work" - only half-heartedly? And it shows.