---
title: Web-pane 1.1
langs:
  pl: 2025-09-28_web-pane-1-1
excerpt: "Managing panes and views in `web-pane`"
headerImage: mid-web-pane.jpg
category: blog
date: 2025-09-28
tags:
  - projects
  - web-pane
slots:
  aside:
    - type: static
      content: |
        ## Links
        - [Downloads](https://github.com/forsetius/web-pane/releases/tag/v1.1.0)
        - [More technical description]{en/web-pane}
        - [Project repository](https://github.com/forsetius/web-pane)
lead: |
  After another two weeks it's time for the next release, **`web-pane` 1.1**.
  
  This time I focused on UX and added improvements that make it easy to open new panes, spin up new views of websites, and move those views between panes. On top of that, there is a better menu, an About window with useful links, and language switching without restarting the app.
---
Even though Web-pane 1.0 was fully usable, it still required either reaching for the command line or assigning pages to launchers. That worked for me as I'm a power user, but for most people it would be a hurdle. Version 1.1 therefore delivers several user-interface improvements.

### New pane
This command opens an additional pane where we can keep another set of pages. If the main pane holds, say, ChatGPT and documentation, the second one can display messaging — WhatsApp notifications and Slack chats, for instance. All you need to do is supply a name such as "chat". The command is available from the menu and on `Ctrl+N`.

<block id="new-pane" type="media" template="lightbox-image" src="web-pane_new-pane_en.png" title="New pane" />

### Open page
This command brings up a dialog that lets you load a new page in a pane. Enter (or paste) the full URL and the page opens in the active pane. If you already have a page from the same domain and want another — say, Facebook in one view and Messenger in another — you need to provide a unique page ID such as "messenger". You can load the page into the active pane, any other existing pane, or a brand-new one (which you need to name). You can find the command in the menu and on the `Ctrl+O` shortcut.

<block id="open-view" type="media" template="lightbox-image" src="web-pane_open-view_en.png" title="Open page" />

### Move page
When several panes are open you might want to move a page from one pane to another. Use the **Move page** command, available in the menu and on the `Ctrl+M` shortcut. Decide whether you want to move the page to an existing pane or to a new one (which you need to name).

<block id="move-view" type="media" template="lightbox-image" src="web-pane_move-view_en.png" title="Move page" />

## Other changes

### Switching the app language

The app is available in Polish and English. To switch languages, open the Preferences window (`F10`) and change the dropdown option. The change applies instantly throughout the app.

### Help

I added an About dialog that links to the [Web-pane homepage]{en/web-pane}, the repository, and the [issue tracker](https://github.com/forsetius/web-pane/issues). I also adopted the GPL-3.0 license and refreshed the README, which now not only explains how the app works but also showcases examples of system integrations.

## Summary
There are meaningful but invisible changes in the code as well. The larger number of dialogs pushed me to unify how they look and behave, and I improved event signaling inside the app. Take a look at the [`web-pane` technical page]{en/web-pane} for more.

At this point the app not only fulfills the purpose it was designed for, it is also far more welcoming to everyday users.

**Enjoy!**

If you spot issues or want to suggest missing features, feel free to open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/forsetius/web-pane/issues/new/choose). If you do not have an account there, you can send me a message through the [contact form]{en/contact}.
