---
title: Ford T
langs:
  pl: 2025-07-04_ford-t
excerpt: Reflections on Dehumanization and the Work Ethos
lead: I've been reading "The Third Wave" by A. Toffler recently. It's great, it describes the reality of the 21st century quite well and the author can be called a visionary, considering that he wrote the book in 1980.
headerImage: mid-fordt-head.jpg
category: blog
date: 2025-07-04
tags:
  - human-condition
slots:
  aside:
    - type: static
      content: |
        ## Links
        - [Ford Model T](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Model_T) on Wikipedia
        - ["The third wave" by Toffler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Third_Wave_(Toffler_book)) on Wikipedia
---
But I got to thinking. Toffler quotes a fragment from Henry Ford's autobiography. The production of his Ford Model T was a milestone not only in motorization, but also in the organization of production. Regarding production, Ford wrote that:
> ...of the 7,882 tasks needed to produce a car:
> - 949 required strong, well-built, and practically physically perfect men
> - 3,338 required men of ordinary physical strength
> - most of the remaining tasks could be performed by women or older children _(oh, the capitalism!)_
> - 670 could be performed by legless men
> - 2,637 - by one-legged men
> - 2 - by the armless
> - 715 - by the one-armed
> - 10 - by the blind

In The Third Wave, Toffler is outraged that this is a typical Second Wave dehumanization of the worker, that the capitalist does not actually need a human being, only an automaton limited to a fractional task and a few limbs. Well, I know that Ford was interested in work efficiency - that is, profits. I agree that doing the same thing over and over dehumanizes, and Ford probably considered employing the disabled just because he could pay them less.

But from today's perspective, we can ask another question: in the context of the realities of the time, wasn't this also a form of social inclusion? Let's think about what alternative such a disabled person had at that time? Begging does dehumanize too, doesn't it? At least a person working in a factory, even on the assembly line, was part of the worker's ethos, could draw some pride and strength from their work. They were not condemned to exclusion and poverty, and their family to hunger.

I would like to emphasize that my point is not to idealize Ford, but to show the ambivalence of progress. Something can be oppressive and progressive at the same time. Perhaps this is the paradox of modernity: that our greatest achievements are born at the intersection of dignity and calculation. Or perhaps it is simply better for a person – even an “incomplete” one – to have his place in the cogs of the world than to be thrown out of those cogs.